# ProsperLoanAnalysis
For my Final Project in the Data Analytics Nanodegree, I went through the entire Data Analytics Process on the Prosper Loan Dataset to gain insights on an applicants LoanStatus. I began with basic cleaning of the dataset- dealing with missing data, fixing data types, removing low varinace variables etc. After this step, I then began the process of feature selection. My first step was to calculate the Variation Inflation Factor of the numerical variables to remove co-linear variables. Then, I decided to run a Multi-Class logistic regression between the features and Loan Status. However, before I did this, I had to conduct basic preprocessing for Machine Learining- dealing with high dimensionality, on-hot encoding, Standard Scaling, etc. I ran the model using Sklearn and was able to obtain a graph of feature importance for all the differnt loan types. Using this graph and intuition,I was able to select whch variables to analyze further. In my analysis step, I conduced univariate, bivariate, and multivariate visualizations using Python's Seaborn and MatPlotLib. From my visualizations, I was able to draw conclusions and summarized my findings in a slide deck. 

### Udacity Grader review:
"You seem to be an advanced student, I can say this is one of the best final projects I've ever reviewed, You did a huge work cleaning and analyzing your dataset, I can see it. You've mastered all the concepts of the data analysis and it is clear from your submission that you'll be a great data analyst."  
